Update Java SDK Configuration page (#4579)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/languages/java/configuration.md

conformance details, see the
[compliance matrix](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/spec-compliance-matrix.md).

> These configuration options apply not only when using the
> [Java agent](/docs/zero-code/java/agent/), but also for all other uses of the
> SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration options apply to the
[Java agent](/docs/zero-code/java/agent/) and all other uses of the
SDK.
```

- Convert the name to uppercase.
- Replace all `.` and `-` characters with `_`.

For example `otel.sdk.enabled` would convert to `OTEL_SDK_ENABLED`.

{{% /alert %}}

## General

> The
> [autoconfigure module](/docs/languages/java/instrumentation/#automatic-configuration)
> (`opentelemetry-sdk-extension-autoconfigure`) allows you to autoconfigure the
> OpenTelemetry SDK based on a standard set of supported environment variables and
> system properties and is the recommended starting point for configuring the SDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The
[autoconfigure module](/docs/languages/java/instrumentation/#automatic-configuration)
(`opentelemetry-sdk-extension-autoconfigure`) allows you to automatically configure the
OpenTelemetry SDK based on a standard set of supported environment variables and
system properties. It is the recommended starting point for configuring the SDK.
```

> {{% alert color="info" %}} The autoconfigure module registers Java shutdown
> hooks to shut down the SDK when appropriate. Please note that since this project
> uses `java.util.logging` for all of it's logging, some of that logging may be
> suppressed during shutdown hooks. This is a bug in the JDK itself, and not
> something we can control. If you require logging during shutdown hooks, please
> consider using `System.out` rather than a logging framework that might shut
> itself down in a shutdown hook, thus suppressing your log messages. See this
> [JDK bug](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8161253) for more details.
> {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% alert color="info" %}} The autoconfigure module registers Java shutdown
hooks to shut down the SDK when appropriate. Because OpenTelemetry Java
uses `java.util.logging` for its logging, some of that logging may be
suppressed during shutdown hooks. This is a bug in the JDK itself, and not
something under the control of OpenTelemetry Hava. If you require logging during shutdown hooks, please
consider using `System.out` rather than a logging framework that might shut
itself down in a shutdown hook, thus suppressing your log messages. See this
[JDK bug](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8161253) for more details.
{{% /alert %}}
```

- Convert the name to uppercase.
- Replace all `.` and `-` characters with `_`.

For example `otel.sdk.enabled` would convert to `OTEL_SDK_ENABLED`.

{{% /alert %}}

## General

The
[autoconfigure module](/docs/languages/java/instrumentation/#automatic-configuration)
(`opentelemetry-sdk-extension-autoconfigure`) allows you to automatically
configure the OpenTelemetry SDK based on a standard set of supported environment

> variables and system properties. It is the recommended starting point for
> configuring the SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
variables and system properties. Start your SDK configurations from it.
```

{{% alert color="info" %}} The autoconfigure module registers Java shutdown
hooks to shut down the SDK when appropriate. Because OpenTelemetry Java uses
`java.util.logging` for its logging, some of that logging may be suppressed
during shutdown hooks. This is a bug in the JDK itself, and not something under

> the control of OpenTelemetry Java. If you require logging during shutdown hooks,
> please consider using `System.out` rather than a logging framework that might
> shut itself down in a shutdown hook, thus suppressing your log messages. See
> this [JDK bug](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8161253) for more
> details. {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the control of OpenTelemetry Java. If you require logging during shutdown hooks,
consider using `System.out` rather than a logging framework that might
shut itself down in a shutdown hook, thus suppressing your log messages. See
this [JDK bug](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8161253) for more
details. {{% /alert %}}
```

| ------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ------- |
| `otel.sdk.disabled` | If `true`, disable the OpenTelemetry SDK. | `false` |

### Resources

A resource is the immutable representation of the entity producing the

> telemetry. See [Resource semantic conventions](/docs/specs/semconv/resource/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
telemetry. See [Resources](/docs/concepts/resources/)
```

for more details.

| System Property                            | Description                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `otel.resource.attributes`                 | Specify resource attributes in the following format: `key1=val1,key2=val2,key3=val3`.                       |
| `otel.service.name`                        | Specify logical service name. Takes precedence over `service.name` defined with `otel.resource.attributes`. |
| `otel.experimental.resource.disabled-keys` | Specify resource attribute keys that are filtered.                                                          |

> You almost always want to specify `otel.service.name` to set the
> [`service.name`](/docs/specs/semconv/resource/#service) resource attribute,
> which represents the logical name of your service. If not specified, the SDK
> sets `service.name=unknown_service:java` by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to use `otel.service.name` to set the
[`service.name`](/docs/specs/semconv/resource/#service) resource attribute,
which represents the logical name of your service. If unspecified, the SDK
sets `service.name=unknown_service:java` by default.
```

### Disabling automatic ResourceProviders

Many instrumentation agent distributions automatically include various
`ResourceProvider` implementations. These can be turned on or off as follows:

| Environment variable                    | Description                                                                                  |
| --------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `otel.java.enabled.resource.providers`  | Turns on one or more `ResourceProvider` types. If unset, all resource providers are enabled. |
| `otel.java.disabled.resource.providers` | Turns off one or more `ResourceProvider` types.                                              |

The value for these properties must be a comma-separated list of fully qualified
`ResourceProvider` class names. For example, if you don't want to expose the
name of the operating system through the resource, you can pass the following
JVM argument:

`-Dotel.java.disabled.resource.providers=io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.resources.OsResourceProvider`

### Attribute limits

> These properties can be used to control the maximum number and length of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following properties can be used to control the maximum number and length of
```

attributes.

| System property                     | Description                                                                            | Default  |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `otel.attribute.value.length.limit` | The maximum length of attribute values. Applies to spans and logs.                     | No limit |
| `otel.attribute.count.limit`        | The maximum number of attributes. Applies to spans, span events, span links, and logs. | `128`    |

### Propagators

> The propagators determine which distributed tracing header formats are used, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Propagators determine which distributed tracing header formats are used, and
```

| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `otel.resource.attributes`                 | Specify resource attributes in the following format: `key1=val1,key2=val2,key3=val3`.                       |
| `otel.service.name`                        | Specify logical service name. Takes precedence over `service.name` defined with `otel.resource.attributes`. |
| `otel.experimental.resource.disabled-keys` | Specify resource attribute keys that are filtered.                                                          |

Make sure to use `otel.service.name` to set the
[`service.name`](/docs/specs/semconv/resource/#service) resource attribute,
which represents the logical name of your service. If unspecified, the SDK sets
`service.name=unknown_service:java` by default.

### ResourceProvider SPI

The
[autoconfigure-spi](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java/tree/main/sdk-extensions/autoconfigure-spi)
SDK extension provides a `ResourceProvider` SPI that allows libraries to

> automatically provide Resources, which are merged into a single Resource by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
automatically provide resources, which are merged into a single resource by the
```

"resources" don't require capitalization. Fix elsewhere in the doc — thanks!

The logging exporter prints the name of the span along with its attributes to
stdout. It's mainly used for testing and debugging.

> This configuration option applies when using the

> > `opentelemetry-exporter-logging` artifact.

Reviewer 3: A reader really needs the group id and the version, in addition to the artifact id, to make work. I wonder if should link all of these to the [listing of artifacts](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-java?tab=readme-ov-file#releases) we maintain in the root of the project.
